README.md, before:

[![logo](https://github.com/anhtu-pham/Parking-Spot-Detection-System/assets/80482507/bc1b2c64-1eb6-4a13-97fa-1d3123521899)](http://ec2-54-225-46-150.compute-1.amazonaws.com:8000/)

# OpenSpot: A Parking Spot Detection System

## Description
OpenSpot is an IoT system that allows users to find an open parking spot in parking lots. Using an image processing solution with a machine learning approach through [YOLO](https://pjreddie.com/darknet/yolo/), OpenSpot will give real-time feedback on parking situations.

As shown in the graph of our project’s system architecture below, a camera attached to the [Raspberry Pi 3 board](https://www.raspberrypi.com/products/raspberry-pi-3-model-b/) captures and streams images of the parking lot. Images, along with corresponding data, are sent from [Raspberry Pi 3 board](https://www.raspberrypi.com/products/raspberry-pi-3-model-b/) through an Amazon Web Services (AWS) t2.micro [EC2 instance](https://aws.amazon.com/ec2/instance-types/?p=itt#general-purpose). An image processing algorithm finds open parking spots, and the result is shown in real-time on a simple web interface on the user’s device.

A machine learning detection model like [YOLO](https://pjreddie.com/darknet/yolo/) can be utilized for the image processing algorithm. Machine learning algorithms usually require large resources, so it would be more efficient to perform this algorithm on the AWS EC2 instance than [Raspberry Pi 3 board](https://www.raspberrypi.com/products/raspberry-pi-3-model-b/) because of the limited resources that Raspberry Pi may allow.

## Project Constraints:
1. This project will not account for vibrations and shaking captured in camera images caused by bad weather conditions.
2. This project will detect parking spots for medium cars as the exemplification of an arbitrary car.
3. With the allowed duration, we develop fundamental functionalities with a simple user interface to guarantee the system’s deployability. However, we still allow for more advanced features to be integrated into the project in the future.


## Hardware and Software Resources
Hardware: [Raspberry Pi 3 board](https://www.raspberrypi.com/products/raspberry-pi-3-model-b/), [Raspberry Pi Camera](https://www.raspberrypi.com/products/camera-module-v3/).

Software: [OpenCV](https://opencv.org), [Socket.IO](https://socket.io), [Flask](https://flask.palletsprojects.com/en/3.0.x/).

# Instructions

In order to run the system, the [Raspberry Pi Camera](https://www.raspberrypi.com/products/camera-module-v3/) needs to be attached to [Raspberry Pi 3 board](https://www.raspberrypi.com/products/raspberry-pi-3-model-b/), and setup commands on Raspberry Pi 3 board terminal should be performed before working with AWS EC2 instance.

On Raspberry Pi 3 board terminal, run the following commands to continuously capture images in real time and sending requests with images to AWS EC2 instance:
```
git clone git@github.com:anhtu-pham/Parking-Spot-Detection-System.git
cd Parking-Spot-Detection-System/Raspberry_Pi_part/src/
chmod a+x driver.py
./driver.py
```
Then open up another terminal for AWS EC2 instance, and run the following commands to receive requests with images and prepare for updating image display on website:
```
git clone git@github.com:anhtu-pham/Parking-Spot-Detection-System.git
cd Parking-Spot-Detection-System/Cloud_part/src/
chmod a+x web_driver.py
./web_driver.py
```
The website is now ready. Image streaming can be seen in the [website link](http://ec2-3-223-161-13.compute-1.amazonaws.com:5000/)

Commit message:

Provide more detailed instructions on running the system

README.md, after:

[![logo](https://github.com/anhtu-pham/Parking-Spot-Detection-System/assets/80482507/bc1b2c64-1eb6-4a13-97fa-1d3123521899)](http://ec2-54-225-46-150.compute-1.amazonaws.com:8000/)

# OpenSpot: A Parking Spot Detection System

## Description
OpenSpot is an IoT system that allows users to find an open parking spot in parking lots. Using an image processing solution with a machine learning approach through [YOLO](https://pjreddie.com/darknet/yolo/), OpenSpot will give real-time feedback on parking situations.

As shown in the graph of our project’s system architecture below, a camera attached to the [Raspberry Pi 3 board](https://www.raspberrypi.com/products/raspberry-pi-3-model-b/) captures and streams images of the parking lot. Images, along with corresponding data, are sent from [Raspberry Pi 3 board](https://www.raspberrypi.com/products/raspberry-pi-3-model-b/) through an Amazon Web Services (AWS) t2.micro [EC2 instance](https://aws.amazon.com/ec2/instance-types/?p=itt#general-purpose). An image processing algorithm finds open parking spots, and the result is shown in real-time on a simple web interface on the user’s device.

A machine learning detection model like [YOLO](https://pjreddie.com/darknet/yolo/) can be utilized for the image processing algorithm. Machine learning algorithms usually require large resources, so it would be more efficient to perform this algorithm on the AWS EC2 instance than [Raspberry Pi 3 board](https://www.raspberrypi.com/products/raspberry-pi-3-model-b/) because of the limited resources that Raspberry Pi may allow.

## Project Constraints:
1. This project will not account for vibrations and shaking captured in camera images caused by bad weather conditions.
2. This project will detect parking spots for medium cars as the exemplification of an arbitrary car.
3. With the allowed duration, we develop fundamental functionalities with a simple user interface to guarantee the system’s deployability. However, we still allow for more advanced features to be integrated into the project in the future.


## Hardware and Software Resources
Hardware: [Raspberry Pi 3 board](https://www.raspberrypi.com/products/raspberry-pi-3-model-b/), [Raspberry Pi Camera](https://www.raspberrypi.com/products/camera-module-v3/).

Software: [OpenCV](https://opencv.org), [Socket.IO](https://socket.io), [Flask](https://flask.palletsprojects.com/en/3.0.x/).

# Instructions

In order to run the system, the [Raspberry Pi Camera](https://www.raspberrypi.com/products/camera-module-v3/) needs to be attached to [Raspberry Pi 3 board](https://www.raspberrypi.com/products/raspberry-pi-3-model-b/), and setup commands on Raspberry Pi 3 board terminal should be performed before working with AWS EC2 instance.

Follow the following instructions to continuously capture images in real time from Raspberry Pi 3 board and sending requests with images to AWS EC2 instance.

On Raspberry Pi 3 board terminal, clone the repository and change to directory for Raspberry Pi in the repository:
```
git clone git@github.com:anhtu-pham/Parking-Spot-Detection-System.git
cd Parking-Spot-Detection-System/Raspberry_Pi_part/
```
In this directory, src provides the entire program needed to run for the Raspberry Pi 3 board. Change directory into src, provide executable permission for driver.py, then run this file.
```
cd src/
chmod a+x driver.py
./driver.py
```
After running driver.py file on Raspberry Pi 3 board terminal, open up another terminal for AWS EC2 instance, and follow the following instructions to receive requests with images and prepare for updating image display on website.

Clone the repository again, but now change to directory for Cloud (AWS EC2 instance) in the repository:
```
git clone git@github.com:anhtu-pham/Parking-Spot-Detection-System.git
cd Parking-Spot-Detection-System/Cloud_part/
```
In this directory, src provides the entire program needed to run for AWS EC2 instance. Now change directory into src, provide executable permission for web_driver.py, then run this file.
```
cd src/
chmod a+x web_driver.py
./web_driver.py
```
The website is now ready. Image streaming can be seen in the [website link](http://ec2-3-223-161-13.compute-1.amazonaws.com:5000/)
